## [The Giant](http://www.seasky.org/solar-system/jupiter-menu.html)
* As we emerge from the scattered fragments of the asteroid belt, we are presented with a truly awesome sight. We have left behind the rocky worlds of the inner planets and have now entered the realm of the gas giants. Here we encounter the fifth planet from the Sun. At over a thousand time the size of Earth, it is also the largest planet in the Solar System. Brilliant colors of red, brown, and orange form bands and swirls in its gaseous atmosphere. A faint ring of delicate, icy material encircles the planet, and many natural satellites of varying sizes can be found in orbit. This is the planet Jupiter and its complex system of moons.

## King of the Gods
* Our first stop in the Jovian system is a truly awesome sight. It is a gaseous planet of enormous proportions. This is the planet Jupiter. It is the fifth planet from the Sun and is the largest. It is also In fact, Jupiter is almost twice the size of all of the other planets combined. Over one thousand Earths could fit inside if it were hollow. Because of its gigantic size, Jupiter was named after the king of the gods in Roman mythology. In Greek mythology, he was known as Zeus, and was famous for hurling lightning bolts at earthbound mortals.

* Jupiter is the fourth brightest object in the sky, so it has been known to exist since prehistoric times. It was Galileo who discovered Jupiter's four largest moons, Callisto, Europa, Ganymede, and Io, in 1610. We now know of 79 moons in orbit around Jupiter, ranging in size from just a few miles across to nearly Earth-sized. The Jovian system is like a miniature solar system within a solar system. With so many satellites tugging on Jupiter with their tidal forces, these moons are actually causing Jupiter's rotation to slow down. These same tidal forces are also pushing the moons farther away from the massive planet.